# RRT* Path Finding Algorithm

This is an implementation of the RRT* algorithm for path planning. This code is designed to be run seperately from the main codebase and is intended for testing and development purposes only.

The code is written in C++ and uses the SFML library for visualization. The implementation includes a simple 2D environment with some tracks. 

## Running the Prototype

To run the prototype, you will need to meet the dependencies listed in the CMakeLists.txt file. The prototype can be run using the following commands:

(while in the prototype directory)
```bash
mkdir build
cd build
```

After that, run the following command to generate the Makefile:

```bash
cmake ..
```

Inside the build directory, run the following command to compile the project:

```bash
make
```

Finally, execute the compiled program:

```bash
./rrt
```

## The Executable

Running the executable will open a window displaying the environment including the track, the start point and the finish line rectangle.

You can choose not to display this window by running:

```bash
./rrt -n
```

The RRT* algorithm will then begin to search for a path from the start point until it reaches the rectangle from the opposite side. The path tree will be displayed in real-time in white, and whenever a new path is found, it will be displayed in red. 

The algorithm will continuously run until a certain number of iterations after the first path is found. When the algorithm finishes, it will print many statistics that are then used by `run_tests.py` to generate graphs.

## Running Tests

Before everything, make sure you have all the python dependencies installed. You can either install them with pip or with apt:

```bash
pip install pandas
```

or

```bash
apt install python3-pandas
```



To run the tests, since the `rrt` executable is inside the `build` directory, you may need to grab the executable and place it in the root directory of the repository.
Then, you can run the tests using the following command:

```bash
python3 run_tests.py
```

This will execute the algorithm multiple times with different parameters and generate a csv file with the results. The results will be saved into `rrt_test_results.csv` in the root directory of the repository.

The final paths of each test will be saved in the `final_paths` directory as cpp files containing a single vector of Points that make out the path. Each file will be named `path_<test_number>.cpp`, where `<test_number>` is the number of the test.

The CSV file will also contain a column with the corresponding path file name for each test, allowing you to easily find the paths generated by each test.

## Visualizing Results

To visualize the results, you can use the `graph_ploting.py` script. This script will read the `rrt_test_results.csv` file and generate graphs for each parameter tested.

These graphs will be saved in the `plots` directory in the root of the repository. You can run the script using the following command:

```bash
python3 graph_ploting.py
```